000
WTNT34 KNHC 080854
TCPAT4
 
BULLETIN
Hurricane Isaias Advisory Number   7
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL092026
400 AM CDT Thu Oct 08 2026
 
...NOAA HURRICANE HUNTERS INDICATE THAT ISAIAS CONTINUES TO
INTENSIFY...
...PREPARATIONS TO PROTECT LIFE AND PROPERTY FROM STORM SURGE AND 
DAMAGING WINDS ALONG THE WARNING AREA OF THE GULF COAST SHOULD BE 
RUSHED TO COMPLETION TODAY...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 400 AM CDT...0900 UTC...INFORMATION
----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...23.3N 91.2W
ABOUT 170 MI...270 KM NW OF PROGRESO MEXICO
ABOUT 420 MI...680 KM SSW OF THE MOUTH OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...80 MPH...130 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...ENE OR 60 DEGREES AT 9 MPH...15 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...979 MB...28.91 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
None.
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Storm Surge Warning is in effect for...
* Mouth of the Mississippi River to the Steinhatchee River, FL
 
A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* Ocean Springs, MS to the Bay/Gulf County Line, FL
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* Jefferson/Plaquemines Parish Line, LA to west of Ocean Springs, MS
* East of Bay/Gulf County Line to Aucilla River, FL
 
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* Steinhatchee River to Yankeetown, FL
 
A Storm Surge Warning means there is a danger of life-threatening
inundation, from rising water moving inland from the coastline,
during the next 36 hours in the indicated locations. For a depiction
of areas at risk, please see the National Weather Service Storm
Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at <a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov'>hurricanes.gov</a>. This is a
life-threatening situation. Persons located within these areas
should take all necessary actions to protect life and property from
rising water and the potential for other dangerous conditions.
Promptly follow evacuation and other instructions from local
officials.
 
A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected
somewhere within the warning area. A warning is typically issued 36
hours before the anticipated first occurrence of
tropical-storm-force winds, conditions that make outside
preparations difficult or dangerous. Preparations to protect life
and property should be rushed to completion.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere within the warning area within 36 hours.
 
A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life-
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours. For
a depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at
<a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov'>hurricanes.gov</a>.
 
Interests in the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico and elsewhere along the
U.S. northern Gulf Coast should closely monitor the progress of this
system.
 
For storm information specific to your area, including possible
inland watches and warnings, please monitor products issued by your
local National Weather Service forecast office.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 400 AM CDT (0900 UTC), the eye of Hurricane Isaias was located by 
NOAA Hurricane Hunter aircraft near latitude 23.3 North, longitude 
91.2 West. Isaias is moving toward the east-northeast near 9 mph  
(15 km/h). A turn toward the northeast is expected later today 
followed by a turn northward on Friday. On the forecast track, 
Isaias is expected to pass to the north of the Yucatan Peninsula 
later today and make landfall along the U.S. northern Gulf Coast 
within the warning area late Friday or early Saturday.
 
Maximum sustained winds have increased near 80 mph (130 km/h) with
higher gusts. Additional strengthening is expected through early
Friday, and Isaias should remain a strong hurricane as it approaches
the northern Gulf Coast on Friday night.
 
Hurricane-force winds extend outward up to 15 miles (30 km) from the
center and tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 90 miles
(150 km).
 
The estimated minimum central pressure measured recently by NOAA 
Hurricane Hunter dropsonde data 979 mb (28.91 inches).
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Isaias can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4 and WMO header WTNT44 KNHC.
 
STORM SURGE: The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the
tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by
rising waters moving inland from the shoreline. The water could
reach the following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated
areas if the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Ocean Springs, MS to Indian Pass, FL...5-7 ft
Mobile Bay...5-7 ft
Mouth of the Mississippi River, LA to Ocean Springs, MS...3-5 ft
Indian Pass, FL to Steinhatchee River, FL...4-6 ft
Steinhatchee River, FL to Yankeetown, FL...2-4 ft
Lake Pontchartrain...1-3 ft
 
The deepest water will occur along the immediate coast near and to
the east of the landfall location, where the surge will be
accompanied by large and dangerous waves. Surge-related flooding
depends on the relative timing of the surge and the tidal cycle, and
can vary greatly over short distances. For information specific to
your area, please see products issued by your local National Weather
Service forecast office.
 
For a complete depiction of areas at risk of storm surge inundation,
please see the National Weather Service Peak Storm Surge Graphic,
available at <a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.'>hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.</a>
 
WIND: Hurricane conditions are expected within the Hurricane Warning
area Friday night into early Saturday, with tropical storm
conditions beginning on Friday. Tropical storm conditions are
expected in the warning areas on Friday and Friday night.
 
Gusty winds are possible in portions of the Yucatan Peninsula later
today.
 
RAINFALL: Isaias is expected to produce rainfall amounts of 1 to 3
inches through today across coastal portions of the eastern Bay
of Campeche with isolated higher amounts possible in the states of
Campeche and western Yucatan.
 
From Friday through the weekend, the system is expected to produce
rainfall amounts of 3 to 7 inches, with localized totals up to 10
inches, across the central U.S. Gulf Coast extending from far
southeastern Louisiana to the Florida Panhandle. Rainfall amounts of
1 to 3 inches, with localized amounts up to 5 inches, are possible
across much of the Southeast as far north as the Tennessee Valley
and the Carolinas. Flash and urban flooding, along with isolated
river flooding, will be possible.
 
For a complete depiction of forecast rainfall associated with
Isaias, please see the National Weather Service Storm Total Rainfall
Graphic available at <a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf'>hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf</a> and
the Flash Flood Risk graphic at
<a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero'>hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero</a>
 
TORNADOES: Isolated tornadoes will be possible Friday night in 
coastal areas of Alabama and the Florida Panhandle and far 
southwestern Georgia. The tornado threat will continue Saturday for 
eastern Alabama, Georgia and northern Florida.
 
SURF: Swells will affect the western and northern portions of the 
Yucatan Peninsula beginning later today and spread northward toward 
the Gulf Coast on Friday. These swells are likely to cause 
life-threatening surf and rip current conditions. Please consult 
products from your local weather office.
 
A depiction of rip current risk for the United States can be found
at: <a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ripCurrents'>hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ripCurrents</a>
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next intermediate advisory at 700 AM CDT.
Next complete advisory at 1000 AM CDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Papin
