000
WTNT34 KNHC 080251
TCPAT4
 
BULLETIN
Tropical Storm Isaias Advisory Number   6
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL       AL092026
1000 PM CDT Wed Oct 07 2026
 
...ISAIAS NEARING HURRICANE STRENGTH...
...HURRICANE AND STORM SURGE WARNINGS ISSUED FOR PORTIONS OF THE
NORTHERN GULF COAST...
 
 
SUMMARY OF 1000 PM CDT...0300 UTC...INFORMATION
-----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...22.9N 91.9W
ABOUT 180 MI...290 KM NW OF PROGRESO MEXICO
ABOUT 460 MI...745 KM SSW OF THE MOUTH OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...70 MPH...110 KM/H
PRESENT MOVEMENT...ENE OR 70 DEGREES AT 9 MPH...15 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...988 MB...29.18 INCHES
 
 
WATCHES AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS ADVISORY:
 
The Hurricane Watch has been upgraded to a Hurricane Warning from 
Ocean Springs, Mississippi, to the Bay/Gulf County Line in 
Florida.

The Storm Surge Watch has been upgraded to a Storm Surge Warning 
from the Mouth of the Mississippi River to the Steinhatchee River, 
Florida.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning has been issued from west of Ocean Springs
to the Jefferson/Plaquemines Parish Line in Louisiana, and east of
the Bay/Gulf County Line to Aucilla River, Florida.
 
The remainder of the Hurricane Watch has been replaced with the
Tropical Storm Warning.
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
A Storm Surge Warning is in effect for...
* Mouth of the Mississippi River to the Steinhatchee River, FL
 
A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* Ocean Springs, MS to the Bay/Gulf County Line, FL
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* Jefferson/Plaquemines Parish Line, LA to west of Ocean Springs, MS
* East of Bay/Gulf County Line to Aucilla River, FL
 
A Storm Surge Watch is in effect for...
* Steinhatchee River to Yankeetown, FL
 
A Storm Surge Warning means there is a danger of life-threatening
inundation, from rising water moving inland from the coastline,
during the next 36 hours in the indicated locations. For a depiction
of areas at risk, please see the National Weather Service Storm
Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at <a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov'>hurricanes.gov</a>. This is a
life-threatening situation. Persons located within these areas
should take all necessary actions to protect life and property from
rising water and the potential for other dangerous conditions.
Promptly follow evacuation and other instructions from local
officials.
 
A Hurricane Warning means that hurricane conditions are expected 
somewhere within the warning area. A warning is typically issued 36 
hours before the anticipated first occurrence of 
tropical-storm-force winds, conditions that make outside 
preparations difficult or dangerous. Preparations to protect life 
and property should be rushed to completion.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere within the warning area within 36 hours.
 
A Storm Surge Watch means there is a possibility of life- 
threatening inundation, from rising water moving inland from the 
coastline, in the indicated locations during the next 48 hours. For 
a depiction of areas at risk, please see the National Weather 
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic, available at 
<a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov'>hurricanes.gov</a>.
 
Interests in the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico and elsewhere along the
U.S. northern Gulf Coast should closely monitor the progress of this
system.
 
For storm information specific to your area, including possible
inland watches and warnings, please monitor products issued by your
local National Weather Service forecast office.
 
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 1000 PM CDT (0300 UTC), the center of Tropical Storm Isaias was 
located near latitude 22.9 North, longitude 91.9 West. Isaias is 
moving toward the east-northeast near 9 mph (15 km/h). A continued 
east-northeastward motion is expected tonight, followed by a turn 
toward the northeast and north on Thursday and Friday. On the 
forecast track, Isaias is expected to pass to the north of the 
Yucatan Peninsula on Thursday and make landfall along the U.S. 
northern Gulf Coast within the warning area late Friday or early 
Saturday.
 
Maximum sustained winds have increased to near 70 mph (110 km/h) 
with higher gusts. Isaias is forecast to become a hurricane soon, 
continue strengthening through early Friday, and remain a strong 
hurricane as it approaches the northern Gulf Coast on Friday night.
 
Tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 60 miles (95 km)
from the center.
 
The estimated minimum central pressure based on dropsonde data is 
988 mb (29.18 inches).
 
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Isaias can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4 and WMO header WTNT44 KNHC.
 
STORM SURGE: The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the
tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by
rising waters moving inland from the shoreline. The water could
reach the following heights above ground somewhere in the indicated
areas if the peak surge occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Ocean Springs, MS to Indian Pass, FL...5-7 ft
Mobile Bay...5-7 ft
Mouth of the Mississippi River, LA to Ocean Springs, MS...3-5 ft
Indian Pass, FL to Steinhatchee River, FL...4-6 ft
Steinhatchee River, FL to Yankeetown, FL...2-4 ft
Lake Pontchartrain...1-3 ft
 
The deepest water will occur along the immediate coast near and to
the east of the landfall location, where the surge will be
accompanied by large and dangerous waves. Surge-related flooding
depends on the relative timing of the surge and the tidal cycle, and
can vary greatly over short distances. For information specific to
your area, please see products issued by your local National Weather
Service forecast office.
 
For a complete depiction of areas at risk of storm surge inundation,
please see the National Weather Service Peak Storm Surge Graphic,
available at <a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.'>hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.</a>
 
WIND: Hurricane conditions are expected within the Hurricane Warning 
area Friday night into early Saturday, with tropical storm 
conditions beginning on Friday. Tropical storm conditions are 
expected in the warning areas on Friday and Friday night.
 
Gusty winds are possible in portions of the Yucatan Peninsula on
Thursday.
 
RAINFALL: Isaias is expected to produce rainfall amounts of 1 to 3
inches through Thursday across coastal portions of the eastern Bay
of Campeche with isolated higher amounts possible in the states of
Campeche and western Yucatan.
 
From Friday through the weekend, the system is expected to produce
rainfall amounts of 3 to 7 inches, with localized totals up to 10
inches, across the central U.S. Gulf Coast extending from far
southeastern Louisiana to the Florida Panhandle. Rainfall amounts of
1 to 3 inches, with localized amounts up to 5 inches, are possible
across much of the Southeast as far north as the Tennessee Valley
and the Carolinas. Flash and urban flooding, along with isolated
river flooding, will be possible.
 
For a complete depiction of forecast rainfall associated with
Isaias, please see the National Weather Service Storm Total Rainfall
Graphic available at <a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf'>hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf</a> and
the Flash Flood Risk graphic at
<a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero'>hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero</a>
 
TORNADOES: Isolated tornadoes will be possible Friday night in
coastal areas of Alabama and the Florida Panhandle. The tornado
threat will persist into Saturday for eastern Alabama, western
Georgia and the Florida Panhandle.
 
SURF: Swells will affect the western and northern portions of the
Yucatan Peninsula beginning on Thursday and spread northward toward
the Gulf Coast late this week. These swells are likely to cause
life-threatening surf and rip current conditions. Please consult
products from your local weather office.
 
A depiction of rip current risk for the United States can be found
at: <a href='https://www.hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ripCurrents'>hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ripCurrents</a>
 
 
NEXT ADVISORY
-------------
Next intermediate advisory at 100 AM CDT.
Next complete advisory at 400 AM CDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Reinhart
